Development.md, before:

# Development Guide

## Planned Features

1. Change the smart sort to include cast and directors as criteria
2. Allow users to upload a custom picture or video for placeholder videos.
3. Fetch additional content from Jellyseerr before the built-in Jellyfin metadata refresh.

## Completed Features
1. Support for Jellyfin 10.11.*! See [Issue #1](https://github.com/kinggeorges12/JellyBridge/issues/1).
2. Change sort order based on user preference or implement a random sort order plugin.

## Contributing

We welcome contributions! Here's how to get started:

1. Fork the repository
2. Create a feature branch
3. Make your changes
4. Test thoroughly
5. Submit a pull request

## Prerequisites

- .NET 8.0 SDK (for Jellyfin 10.10.7)
- .NET 9.0 SDK (for Jellyfin 10.11.0)
- Jellyfin 10.10.7 or 10.11.0
- PowerShell 7 or greater (for build scripts)
- Visual Studio 2022 or VS Code (optional)

## Building the Plugin

1. **Clone the repository**
   ```bash
   git clone https://github.com/kinggeorges12/JellyBridge.git
   cd JellyBridge
   ```

2. **Restore dependencies**
   ```bash
   dotnet restore src\Jellyfin.Plugin.JellyBridge\JellyBridge.csproj
   ```

3. **Build the plugin**
   
   For Jellyfin 10.10.7 (net8.0):
   ```bash
   dotnet build src\Jellyfin.Plugin.JellyBridge\JellyBridge.csproj --configuration Release --warnaserror -p:JellyfinVersion=10.10.7
   ```
   
   For Jellyfin 10.11.0 (net9.0):
   ```bash
   dotnet build src\Jellyfin.Plugin.JellyBridge\JellyBridge.csproj --configuration Release --warnaserror -p:JellyfinVersion=10.11.0
   ```

## Manual Installation

After building, copy the DLL to your Jellyfin plugins folder:
1. Navigate to the build output directory based on your Jellyfin version:
   - Jellyfin 10.10.7: `src\Jellyfin.Plugin.JellyBridge\bin\Release\net8.0\`
   - Jellyfin 10.11.0: `src\Jellyfin.Plugin.JellyBridge\bin\Release\net9.0\`
2. Copy the `JellyBridge.dll` file
3. Place it in your Jellyfin plugins directory:
   - Linux: `/var/lib/jellyfin/plugins/`
   - Windows: `C:\ProgramData\Jellyfin\plugins\`
   - Docker: volume mount to your plugins directory
4. Restart Jellyfin

## Scripts

The project includes several useful PowerShell scripts in the `scripts` directory:

### `check-models.ps1` - Model Validation Script
**Purpose**: Validates all generated C# files for missing classes, enums, and conversion issues.

**Usage**:
```powershell
pwsh -File scripts/check-models.ps1
```

**What it checks**:
- Empty or very small files
- Missing using statements
- Unresolved class references
- Type mismatches
- Missing required enums
- Duplicate class declarations
- Duplicate properties within classes
- Invalid property names

**When to use**: After running `convert-models.ps1` to ensure the conversion was successful.

---

### `convert-models.ps1` - TypeScript to C# Conversion Script
**Purpose**: Converts TypeScript models from the Jellyseerr source code to C# classes.

**Usage**:
```powershell
pwsh -File scripts/convert-models.ps1
```

**What it does**:
- Reads TypeScript files from `codebase/seerr-main`
- Converts them to C# classes
- Applies naming conventions and type mappings
- Outputs to `src/Jellyfin.Plugin.JellyBridge/JellyseerrModel/`
- Uses configuration from `convert-config.psd1`

**When to use**: When you need to update the Jellyseerr models (e.g., after Jellyseerr releases a new version with API changes).

---

### `convert-config.psd1` - Model Conversion Configuration
**Purpose**: Configuration file for the model conversion script.

**Setup Required**:
Before running the convert-models script, you need to have the Jellyseerr source code:
```bash
# Clone the Jellyseerr repository
git clone https://github.com/jellyseerr/jellyseerr.git codebase/seerr-main
```

**Contents**:
- Input/output directory mappings (`codebase/seerr-main/server/*` → `JellyseerrModel/*`)
- Type conversion rules (e.g., number to double patterns)
- Blocked classes (classes that are too complex to convert)
- Namespace mapping
- JSON property generation for serialization

**Note**: Edit this file when you need to adjust how TypeScript models are converted to C#.

---

### `build-branch.ps1` - Branch Release Script
**Purpose**: Builds and releases the plugin for a specific branch with automatic versioning.

**Usage**:
```powershell
pwsh -File scripts/build-branch.ps1 -Changelog "Description of changes" -Branch "feature" -ReleaseType "patch"
```

**Parameters**:
- `-Changelog` (optional): Description of changes in this release
- `-Branch` (optional, default: "feature"): Git branch to build and release
- `-ReleaseType` (optional, default: "patch"): Version increment type - "major", "minor", or "patch"
- `-Version` (optional): Specific version number (if not provided, auto-increments from latest release)

**What it does**:
- Auto-calculates version from latest release if not provided
- Builds for both Jellyfin 10.10.7 (net8.0) and 10.11.0 (net9.0)
- Creates release ZIP files with proper ABI targeting
- Updates manifest.json with new version entries
- Commits and pushes changes to the specified branch

**When to use**: For regular development releases on feature branches.

---

### `build-local.ps1` - Local Development Build Script
**Purpose**: Builds the plugin DLL for local testing and optionally copies to Docker test instance.

**Usage**:
```powershell
pwsh -File scripts/build-local.ps1 [-Clean] [-Docker] [-DockerContainerName "name"] [-DockerPluginPath "path"]
```

**Parameters**:
- `-Clean`: Clean previous builds before building
- `-Docker`: Copy DLL to Docker test instance after build
- `-DockerContainerName`: Name of Docker container (default: "test-jellyfin")
- `-DockerPluginPath`: Path to plugins directory in Docker (default: Windows Docker path)

**What it does**:
- Builds the plugin for Jellyfin 10.10.7 (net8.0)
- Optionally copies DLL to Docker test instance
- Creates meta.json for local testing

**When to use**: For local development and testing.

---

### `build-release.ps1` - Main Branch Release Script
**Purpose**: Creates an official release for the main branch with GitHub release creation.

**Usage**:
```powershell
pwsh -File scripts/build-release.ps1 -Version "1.0.0" -Changelog "Release description" [-Release]
```

**Parameters**:
- `-Version` (required): Version number in format X.Y.Z
- `-Changelog` (required): Release description
- `-Release`: Create GitHub release (default: false, creates draft)
- `-GitHubUsername` (optional): GitHub username (default: "kinggeorges12")

**What it does**:
- Builds for both Jellyfin 10.10.7 and 10.11.0
- Creates release ZIP files
- Updates manifest.json
- Creates GitHub release (draft or published)
- Commits and pushes to main branch

**When to use**: For official releases on the main branch.

---

## Project Structure

```
JellyBridge/
├── Assets/                       # Image assets
│   ├── movie.png
│   ├── S00E00.png
│   ├── season.png
│   └── show.png
├── Attributes/                   # Plugin attributes
│   └── JellyfinVersionAttribute.cs
├── BridgeModels/                 # Data models
│   ├── BridgeConfiguration.cs
│   ├── JellyMatch.cs
│   ├── JellyseerrApiResults.cs
│   └── ... (other bridge models)
├── Configuration/                # Configuration classes
│   ├── ConfigurationPage.html
│   ├── ConfigurationPage.js
│   └── PluginConfiguration.cs
├── Controllers/                  # REST API controllers
│   ├── AdvancedSettingsController.cs
│   ├── GeneralSettingsController.cs
│   ├── ImportDiscoverContentController.cs
│   ├── ManageDiscoverLibraryController.cs
│   ├── PluginConfigurationController.cs
│   ├── SortDiscoverContentController.cs
│   └── TaskStatusController.cs
├── JellyfinModels/               # Jellyfin Internal API wrapper models
│   ├── DateTimeSerialization.cs
│   ├── IJellyfinItem.cs
│   ├── JellyfinILibraryManager.cs
│   ├── JellyfinIProviderManager.cs
│   ├── JellyfinIUserDataManager.cs
│   ├── JellyfinIUserManager.cs
│   ├── JellyfinMovie.cs
│   ├── JellyfinSeries.cs
│   ├── JellyfinTaskTrigger.cs
│   ├── JellyfinUser.cs
│   ├── JellyfinWrapperResult.cs
│   └── WrapperBase.cs
├── JellyseerrModel/              # Generated API models
│   ├── Api/                      # API interface definitions
│   ├── Common/                   # Common models
│   └── Server/                   # Server models
├── Services/                     # Business logic services
│   ├── ApiService.cs
│   ├── BridgeService.cs
│   ├── CleanupService.cs
│   ├── DiscoverService.cs
│   ├── FavoriteService.cs
│   ├── LibraryService.cs
│   ├── MetadataService.cs
│   ├── PlaceholderVideoGenerator.cs
│   ├── PluginServiceRegistrator.cs
│   ├── SortService.cs
│   └── SyncService.cs
├── Tasks/                        # Scheduled tasks
│   ├── SortTask.cs
│   ├── StartupTask.cs
│   └── SyncTask.cs
├── Utils/                        # Utility classes
│   ├── DebugLogger.cs
│   ├── FolderUtils.cs
│   └── JellyBridgeJsonSerializer.cs
├── JellyBridge.csproj           # Project file
├── Plugin.cs                     # Main plugin class
└── manifest.json                 # Plugin manifest (in project root)
```

## Dependencies

This plugin uses:
- **.NET 8.0** - Target framework for Jellyfin 10.10.7
- **.NET 9.0** - Target framework for Jellyfin 10.11.0
- **Jellyfin 10.10.7 or 10.11.0** - Plugin SDK packages (version-specific)
- **ASP.NET Core** - For API endpoints
- **Microsoft.Extensions** (8.0.1 for net8.0, 9.0.10 for net9.0) - For dependency injection and logging
- **Newtonsoft.Json** - For JSON serialization

The project automatically selects the correct target framework and package versions based on the `JellyfinVersion` build property.

Commit message:

Release v1.3.4 - Added FavoriteEventHandler service to subscribe to favorite item events in Jellyfin. The service listens for UserDataSaved events and can trigger custom logic when items are favorited or unfavorited. This enables real-time processing of favorite changes instead of relying solely on scheduled sync tasks.

Development.md, after:

# Development Guide

## Planned Features

1. Extract the request favorites function from the sync task. The favorites function can be triggered directly from the Favorite event handler in Jellyfin. See [Issue #12](https://github.com/kinggeorges12/JellyBridge/issues/12#issuecomment-3533119223).
2. Faster refreshes that target only the metadata items that have been changed.
3. Change the smart sort to include cast and directors as criteria
4. Allow users to upload a custom picture or video for placeholder videos.
5. Fetch additional content from Jellyseerr before the built-in Jellyfin metadata refresh.

## Completed Features
1. Support for Jellyfin 10.11.\*! See [Issue #1](https://github.com/kinggeorges12/JellyBridge/issues/1).
2. Change sort order based on user preference or implement a random sort order plugin.

## Contributing

We welcome contributions! Here's how to get started:

1. Fork the repository
2. Create a feature branch
3. Make your changes
4. Test thoroughly
5. Submit a pull request

## Prerequisites

- .NET 8.0 SDK (for Jellyfin 10.10.7)
- .NET 9.0 SDK (for Jellyfin 10.11.0)
- Jellyfin 10.10.7 or 10.11.0
- PowerShell 7 or greater (for build scripts)
- Visual Studio 2022 or VS Code (optional)

## Building the Plugin

1. **Clone the repository**
   ```bash
   git clone https://github.com/kinggeorges12/JellyBridge.git
   cd JellyBridge
   ```

2. **Restore dependencies**
   ```bash
   dotnet restore src\Jellyfin.Plugin.JellyBridge\JellyBridge.csproj
   ```

3. **Build the plugin**
   
   For Jellyfin 10.10.7 (net8.0):
   ```bash
   dotnet build src\Jellyfin.Plugin.JellyBridge\JellyBridge.csproj --configuration Release --warnaserror -p:JellyfinVersion=10.10.7
   ```
   
   For Jellyfin 10.11.0 (net9.0):
   ```bash
   dotnet build src\Jellyfin.Plugin.JellyBridge\JellyBridge.csproj --configuration Release --warnaserror -p:JellyfinVersion=10.11.0
   ```

## Manual Installation

After building, copy the DLL to your Jellyfin plugins folder:
1. Navigate to the build output directory based on your Jellyfin version:
   - Jellyfin 10.10.7: `src\Jellyfin.Plugin.JellyBridge\bin\Release\net8.0\`
   - Jellyfin 10.11.0: `src\Jellyfin.Plugin.JellyBridge\bin\Release\net9.0\`
2. Copy the `JellyBridge.dll` file
3. Place it in your Jellyfin plugins directory:
   - Linux: `/var/lib/jellyfin/plugins/`
   - Windows: `C:\ProgramData\Jellyfin\plugins\`
   - Docker: volume mount to your plugins directory
4. Restart Jellyfin

## Scripts

The project includes several useful PowerShell scripts in the `scripts` directory:

### `check-models.ps1` - Model Validation Script
**Purpose**: Validates all generated C# files for missing classes, enums, and conversion issues.

**Usage**:
```powershell
pwsh -File scripts/check-models.ps1
```

**What it checks**:
- Empty or very small files
- Missing using statements
- Unresolved class references
- Type mismatches
- Missing required enums
- Duplicate class declarations
- Duplicate properties within classes
- Invalid property names

**When to use**: After running `convert-models.ps1` to ensure the conversion was successful.

---

### `convert-models.ps1` - TypeScript to C# Conversion Script
**Purpose**: Converts TypeScript models from the Jellyseerr source code to C# classes.

**Usage**:
```powershell
pwsh -File scripts/convert-models.ps1
```

**What it does**:
- Reads TypeScript files from `codebase/seerr-main`
- Converts them to C# classes
- Applies naming conventions and type mappings
- Outputs to `src/Jellyfin.Plugin.JellyBridge/JellyseerrModel/`
- Uses configuration from `convert-config.psd1`

**When to use**: When you need to update the Jellyseerr models (e.g., after Jellyseerr releases a new version with API changes).

---

### `convert-config.psd1` - Model Conversion Configuration
**Purpose**: Configuration file for the model conversion script.

**Setup Required**:
Before running the convert-models script, you need to have the Jellyseerr source code:
```bash
# Clone the Jellyseerr repository
git clone https://github.com/jellyseerr/jellyseerr.git codebase/seerr-main
```

**Contents**:
- Input/output directory mappings (`codebase/seerr-main/server/*` → `JellyseerrModel/*`)
- Type conversion rules (e.g., number to double patterns)
- Blocked classes (classes that are too complex to convert)
- Namespace mapping
- JSON property generation for serialization

**Note**: Edit this file when you need to adjust how TypeScript models are converted to C#.

---

### `build-branch.ps1` - Branch Release Script
**Purpose**: Builds and releases the plugin for a specific branch with automatic versioning.

**Usage**:
```powershell
pwsh -File scripts/build-branch.ps1 -Changelog "Description of changes" -Branch "feature" -ReleaseType "patch"
```

**Parameters**:
- `-Changelog` (optional): Description of changes in this release
- `-Branch` (optional, default: "feature"): Git branch to build and release
- `-ReleaseType` (optional, default: "patch"): Version increment type - "major", "minor", or "patch"
- `-Version` (optional): Specific version number (if not provided, auto-increments from latest release)

**What it does**:
- Auto-calculates version from latest release if not provided
- Builds for both Jellyfin 10.10.7 (net8.0) and 10.11.0 (net9.0)
- Creates release ZIP files with proper ABI targeting
- Updates manifest.json with new version entries
- Commits and pushes changes to the specified branch

**When to use**: For regular development releases on feature branches.

---

### `build-local.ps1` - Local Development Build Script
**Purpose**: Builds the plugin DLL for local testing and optionally copies to Docker test instance.

**Usage**:
```powershell
pwsh -File scripts/build-local.ps1 [-Clean] [-Docker] [-DockerContainerName "name"] [-DockerPluginPath "path"]
```

**Parameters**:
- `-Clean`: Clean previous builds before building
- `-Docker`: Copy DLL to Docker test instance after build
- `-DockerContainerName`: Name of Docker container (default: "test-jellyfin")
- `-DockerPluginPath`: Path to plugins directory in Docker (default: Windows Docker path)

**What it does**:
- Builds the plugin for Jellyfin 10.10.7 (net8.0)
- Optionally copies DLL to Docker test instance
- Creates meta.json for local testing

**When to use**: For local development and testing.

---

### `build-release.ps1` - Main Branch Release Script
**Purpose**: Creates an official release for the main branch with GitHub release creation.

**Usage**:
```powershell
pwsh -File scripts/build-release.ps1 -Version "1.0.0" -Changelog "Release description" [-Release]
```

**Parameters**:
- `-Version` (required): Version number in format X.Y.Z
- `-Changelog` (required): Release description
- `-Release`: Create GitHub release (default: false, creates draft)
- `-GitHubUsername` (optional): GitHub username (default: "kinggeorges12")

**What it does**:
- Builds for both Jellyfin 10.10.7 and 10.11.0
- Creates release ZIP files
- Updates manifest.json
- Creates GitHub release (draft or published)
- Commits and pushes to main branch

**When to use**: For official releases on the main branch.

---

## Project Structure

```
JellyBridge/
├── Assets/                       # Image assets
│   ├── movie.png
│   ├── S00E00.png
│   ├── season.png
│   └── show.png
├── Attributes/                   # Plugin attributes
│   └── JellyfinVersionAttribute.cs
├── BridgeModels/                 # Data models
│   ├── BridgeConfiguration.cs
│   ├── JellyMatch.cs
│   ├── JellyseerrApiResults.cs
│   └── ... (other bridge models)
├── Configuration/                # Configuration classes
│   ├── ConfigurationPage.html
│   ├── ConfigurationPage.js
│   └── PluginConfiguration.cs
├── Controllers/                  # REST API controllers
│   ├── AdvancedSettingsController.cs
│   ├── GeneralSettingsController.cs
│   ├── ImportDiscoverContentController.cs
│   ├── ManageDiscoverLibraryController.cs
│   ├── PluginConfigurationController.cs
│   ├── SortDiscoverContentController.cs
│   └── TaskStatusController.cs
├── JellyfinModels/               # Jellyfin Internal API wrapper models
│   ├── DateTimeSerialization.cs
│   ├── IJellyfinItem.cs
│   ├── JellyfinILibraryManager.cs
│   ├── JellyfinIProviderManager.cs
│   ├── JellyfinIUserDataManager.cs
│   ├── JellyfinIUserManager.cs
│   ├── JellyfinMovie.cs
│   ├── JellyfinSeries.cs
│   ├── JellyfinTaskTrigger.cs
│   ├── JellyfinUser.cs
│   ├── JellyfinWrapperResult.cs
│   └── WrapperBase.cs
├── JellyseerrModel/              # Generated API models
│   ├── Api/                      # API interface definitions
│   ├── Common/                   # Common models
│   └── Server/                   # Server models
├── Services/                     # Business logic services
│   ├── ApiService.cs
│   ├── BridgeService.cs
│   ├── CleanupService.cs
│   ├── DiscoverService.cs
│   ├── FavoriteService.cs
│   ├── LibraryService.cs
│   ├── MetadataService.cs
│   ├── PlaceholderVideoGenerator.cs
│   ├── PluginServiceRegistrator.cs
│   ├── SortService.cs
│   └── SyncService.cs
├── Tasks/                        # Scheduled tasks
│   ├── SortTask.cs
│   ├── StartupTask.cs
│   └── SyncTask.cs
├── Utils/                        # Utility classes
│   ├── DebugLogger.cs
│   ├── FolderUtils.cs
│   └── JellyBridgeJsonSerializer.cs
├── JellyBridge.csproj           # Project file
├── Plugin.cs                     # Main plugin class
└── manifest.json                 # Plugin manifest (in project root)
```

## Dependencies

This plugin uses:
- **.NET 8.0** - Target framework for Jellyfin 10.10.7
- **.NET 9.0** - Target framework for Jellyfin 10.11.0
- **Jellyfin 10.10.7 or 10.11.0** - Plugin SDK packages (version-specific)
- **ASP.NET Core** - For API endpoints
- **Microsoft.Extensions** (8.0.1 for net8.0, 9.0.10 for net9.0) - For dependency injection and logging
- **Newtonsoft.Json** - For JSON serialization

The project automatically selects the correct target framework and package versions based on the `JellyfinVersion` build property.
